### SETTING LARVAE#### Larvae can be induced to set after signals of set have been observed (typically at 12-20 days post-fertilization when eye spots > 12 μm, feet are observed, and the larvae hold on a 250μm mesh screen).
1. Larvae are collected on a 250μm screen and placed in 118μm screen (rinsed in 25 ºC seawater passed through a 1μm filter) and are wrapped in a paper towel dampened with seawater.  Larvae are stored at 0-5 ºC in a refrigerator. Larvae are again collected from the tanks at 2 and 4 days after the first collection, labeled, wrapped in separate pieces of screen, and stored at 0-5 ºC in a refrigerator.2. After 4 days of collection, all wrapped larvae are placed in a 25 ºC room to bring up to room temperature for 45 minutes (larvae should be unwrapped after 30 minutes).3. The larvae are then placed into separate, labeled 1 L beakers containing 1000 ml of 25ºC seawater passed through a 1μm filter.  The larvae are allowed to acclimatize to the temperature of the seawater for ~ 30 minutes during which time they should start swimming. 4. An epinephrine solution is made prior to treatment time consisting of 2.0 g epinephrine bitartrate salt and 60 ml dH2O.  This solution may be stored in the refrigerator for no more than 3 days.  5. The treatment of larvae with epinephrine solution is conducted in a dimmed 25˚C room.  Add 1 ml of epinephrine solution to each beaker and use a plunger to mix.  The beaker is then plunged. Every 15 minutes the beakers should be plunged to maximize exposure of the larvae to epinephrine and to minimize setting onto beaker surfaces.6. Most of the larvae fall out of the water column after the first minute of treatment with the epinephrine solution.  The larvae should be treated for 1.5-2.5 hours.  The water may turn pink (evidence of oxidation). 7. The larvae are then screened out from the solution and rinsed with seawater, then poured back into their beakers with seawater.  After 1 hour, swimming larvae are returned to their culture tank.  Set larvae (on the bottom) are then transferred to the nursery system.